---
layout: post
title: 
date: 2019-11-27 15:55
category: 
author: 
tags: [cpp]
summary: 
---

## preprocessor

```c
# // stringizing
## // token pasting
```

[Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/preprocessor/preprocessor-operators)

Note: If an argument is stringized or concatenated, the prescan does not occur.
i.e. macro argument is not marco-expanded before substitution.

```c
#define xstr(s) str(s)
#define str(s) #s
#define foo 4
str (foo)
     → "foo"
xstr (foo)
     → xstr (4)
     → str (4)
     → "4"
```
[Reference])(https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc-7.5.0/cpp/Argument-Prescan.html#Argument-Prescan)

## array type

> There is an implicit conversion from lvalues and rvalues of array type to rvalues of pointer type:
> it constructs a pointer to the first element of an array.
> This conversion is used whenever arrays appear in context where arrays are not expected, but pointers are.

> Note that when array-to-pointer decay is applied,
> a multidimensional array is converted to a pointer to its first element
> (e.g., a pointer to its first row or to its first plane):
> array-to-pointer decay is applied only once.

Notice that `new []` always seems to decay once.

[Demo Here]({{site.asset_url}}/files/array_type.cpp)

## crtp

Notice that even though we can cast to child class.
If we do not have the function defined in the child class,
the pointer might be implicitly casted back to parent class.

## static variables initialization order

The order is undefined across different compilation units.

In the same compilation unit, it is the same order as definition.

Side note:
I think it might relate to the compile process.
i.e. the compiler knows that this symbol has dependency on other symbols.
But the only thing it can do is to leave a undefined symbol
When linker generates the binary,
it only knows that there is an undefined symbol without knowing the dependency?

## unique_ptr

* Notice that when we use `release`, the custom deleter is lost.
  * So, when constructing shared_ptr from unique_ptr, we need to `move`.
* `unique_ptr` points to one element of T, which differs from raw pointer
  * `unique_ptr<int>` point to one and only one int
  * `unique_ptr<int[]>` point to one int array
    * notice that this is a array specialization of unique_ptr
  * `int*` point to one int, which might be the start of a array.

## shared_ptr

```c++
struct Good: std::enable_shared_from_this<Good> // note: public inheritance
{
    std::shared_ptr<Good> getptr() {
        return shared_from_this();
    }
};
```

When `Good` is managed by a `shared_ptr`,
`shared_from_this` generates additional `shared_ptr` from `this` with shared ownership.

* `std::shared_ptr<Good>(this)` is broken due to separate reference count

## virtual function 

* virtual function should be accessed using pointer or reference
* have a static virtual table for each class
* let each class hold a pointer to such virtual table
* replace parent's pointer with child's pointer at construction
* type information & dynamic cast can be embedded in the virtual table
* function call cannot be inlined

```c
// simple dump function
// %zu for size_t, %p for void *
static void print_object(const char *name, void *this_, size_t size) {
  void **ugly = reinterpret_cast<void**>(this_);
  size_t i;
  printf("created %s at address %p of size %zu\n", name, this_, size);
  for(i = 0 ; i < size / sizeof(void*) ; i++) {
    printf("  pointer[%zu] == %p\n", i, ugly[i]);
  }
}
```

http://blog.httrack.com/blog/2014/05/09/a-basic-glance-at-the-virtual-table/

## virtual function in cpp constructor / destructor [OOP50-CPP]

> the function called is the final overrider in the constructor’s or destructor’s class and not one overriding it in a more-derived class.

Since that the children is constructed after parent class,
even if we could call the child function (such as using crtp),
the member variable would not be there.

## multi-threading

* use scoped_lock over lock_guard because it is a super set
* unique_lock has the state of not owning any mutex.
  * Thus, it can be default contructed. (error-prune)
* condition_variable:
  * needs to unlock so unique_lock is necessary
  * w/o predicate, a cv can be notified before entering wait state (lost)
    * with predicate, we can check and skip the wait
  * w/o predicate, a cv can Spurious wakeup and escape the wait
    * with predicate, we will re-enter wait
  * predicate needs to be guarded with the same mutex
    * otherwise, a sync is not guranteed.

## iterator

* when empty, then `begin() == end()`
* `input iterator`, `++r` requires r to be dereferencable
* `bidirectional iterator`, `--r` has the *post condition* that r is dereferenable
* `before_begin` is only defined for `forward_list`

## misc

* `std::algorithm`
* `find_if`, `find_if_not`
  * `find_first_of`, `find_last_of` in `std::string`.
  also notice the `pos` parameter
* `swap`, `reverse`
* `string` to `stringstream` to `std::getline` == `split`
* `[[nodiscard]]`: mark a value so that user cannot ignore it without notice

## memory layout

[aggregate, POD](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4178175/what-are-aggregates-and-pods-and-how-why-are-they-special)

[operator new](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/new/operator_new)

## name lookup

For names in templates, there is a two phase name lookup.
`dependent` and `nondependent` with respect to some template parameter.

* due to existance of template specialization, a dependent name can resolve differently based on template parameter
* The compiler will not look into dependent base class when looking up nondependent names.
  * So, inheritance might not resolve properly
* The compiler might look into the bigger namespace if nondependent name lookup fail
  * it is possible to lookup a different function with the same name
* The compiler might not be sure if a dependent name is a type
  * In this case, `typename` need to be specified
* The compiler might not be sure if a nondependent name becomes a dependent one.
  * In this case, `template` need to be specified

[Reference 1](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2012/02/06/dependent-name-lookup-for-c-templates)
[Reference 2](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/dependent_name)
[Guideline](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/templates#nondependent-name-lookup-members)

## exception

* all exceptions need to be exposed in abi
  * otherwise, rtti cannot resolve
* exceptions need to be inherited virtually such that it resolve to a single base class

## remove while iterating

* map: since c++11, erase return iter to next element. So, we can continue with that new iter

## reflection vs rtti

With rtti, program is able to work on a set of runtime types.
The set is determined in compile time.

With reflection, program is expected to work on any runtime types
by looking into the data structure during runtime

## stdio

```c++
// makes c and c++ io have independent buffer
ios_base::sync_with_stdio(false);
// normally, cin / cout flush before op on the other
// untie it means manually flush
cin.tie(NULL);
```

## SFINAE

* Short for Substitution failure is not an error.
* So that a compliment template can be effective
* Useful in template meta programming
* `enable_if<bool, T=void>::type`
  * resolve to T if true
  * otherwise, fail
  * `enable_if_t<bool> * = nullptr`
* default template argument is not considered to have different type 

## 

## todo section

### std function vs function pointer

note: you can bind to abstract class if you pass by pointer

> std::bind generates a forwarding call wrapper for f.
> The arguments to bind are copied or moved,
> and are never passed by reference unless wrapped in std::ref or std::cref.

If a function has a reference parameter, there is a problem forwarding to this?

### c++ module

https://vector-of-bool.github.io/2019/03/31/modules-2.html

## c++ concepts

c++ guide?
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Using_CXX_in_Mozilla_code

## anonymous namespace vs static name conflict

## c++ regex

## library

eigen
blaze
xtensor
xsimd

https://cwe.mitre.org/data/index.html
https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/collector/pages.action?key=cplusplus
