---
layout: post
title: 
date: 2020-08-13 17:22
category: 
author: 
tags: [misc]
summary: 
---

## basic

* LDAP:
  * protocol
* Microsoft Active Directory
  * database for various directory services
  * AD Domian Service: DNS + authentication
  * AD LDS: implements LDAP
* OpenLDAP
  * implements LDAP
* DNS + DHCP

## OpenLDAP

Copied from [ubuntu documentation](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/service-ldap). Highlighted with keywords.

* A directory is a tree of data `entries` that is hierarchical in nature and is called the `Directory Information Tree (DIT)`.
* An entry consists of a set of `attributes`.
* An attribute has a key (a name/description) and one or more values.
* Every attribute must be defined in at least one `objectClass`.
* Attributes and objectClasses are defined in schemas (an objectClass is actually considered as a special kind of attribute).
* Each entry has a unique identifier: its `Distinguished Name (DN or dn)`. This, in turn, consists of a `Relative Distinguished Name (RDN)` followed by the parent entry’s DN.
* The entry’s DN is not an attribute. It is not considered part of the entry itself.

### setup

```
apt install slapd ldap-utils
dkpg-reconfigure slapd
```

## dns basic

* iterative query: server will give a referral to other dns to continue query
* recursive query: server will query other dns for a complete answer
  * DNS amplification
  * DNS cache poisoning
* zone transfer: `AXFR`
  * replicate DNS database across servers
* reverse look up zone:
  * `<reverse ip octet>.in-addr.arpa`
  * `207.126.67.129` -> `129.67.126.207.in-addr.arpa`

## Bind9

```
/etc/bind/named.conf
/etc/bind/named.conf.default-zones
/etc/bind/named.conf.options
/etc/bind/named.conf.local
/etc/bind/named.conf.log
```

[Document](https://bind9.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference.html)

## setup 

```
bind9-dyndb-ldap
```

## tool

`dig`
`host`
`nslookup`
`named-checkconf`
`named-checkzone`

## conf

* `acl`: subnets for access control
* `options`:
  * `directory`: working directory
  * `allow-query`
  * `recursion`, `allow-recursion`
  * `allow-transfer`
  * `forwarders`
  * `query-source`: no frozen port, security?
* `zone`
  * `type`
    * `primary`: master copy
    * `secondary`: use primary to update its copy
  * `file`

## zone file

* created based on `/etc/bind/db.local`
* `$TTL`: default ttl
* name ttl record_class	record_type record_data
  * `@`: current domain placeholder
  * name can be left blank to inherit from previous record
    * name can end with `.` for a full domain name
    * otherwise, it is relative to current domain
  * ttl is optional
* `SOA`: start of authority
  * controls the zone transfer
  * `MNAME`: primary name server
    * UPDATE, NOTIFY?
  * `RNAME`: admin email
    * dot in user name are escaped with `\.`
* `NS`: name server
  * each ns records one name server for a domain
* `MX`: mail server
* `A`, `AAAA`: the ip for a domain
* `CNAME`: restart query using CNAME
* `PTR`: reverse look up

note that sub domain might not need to be resolved completely

## dns round robin


https://www.flomain.de/2018/09/using-linux-with-openldap-for-user-dhcp-and-dns/
