---
layout: post
title: 
date: 2019-11-27 15:55
category: 
author: 
tags: [cpp]
summary: 
---

## basic 

* `[[nodiscard]]`: mark a value so that user cannot ignore it without notice
* remove while iterating
  * erase() return iter to next element
* comp functor requires a [strict weak ordering](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/585396/what-is-meaning-of-strict-weak-ordering-in-laymans-term)
  * i.e. implement `<` rather than `<=`

## preprocessor

```c
# // stringizing
## // token pasting
```

[Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/preprocessor/preprocessor-operators)

Note: If an argument is stringized or concatenated, the prescan does not occur.
i.e. macro argument is not marco-expanded before substitution.

```c
#define xstr(s) str(s)
#define str(s) #s
#define foo 4
str (foo)
     → "foo"
xstr (foo)
     → xstr (4)
     → str (4)
     → "4"
```
[Reference])(https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc-7.5.0/cpp/Argument-Prescan.html#Argument-Prescan)

## array type

> There is an implicit conversion from lvalues and rvalues of array type to rvalues of pointer type:
> it constructs a pointer to the first element of an array.
> This conversion is used whenever arrays appear in context where arrays are not expected, but pointers are.

> Note that when array-to-pointer decay is applied,
> a multidimensional array is converted to a pointer to its first element
> (e.g., a pointer to its first row or to its first plane):
> array-to-pointer decay is applied only once.

Notice that `new []` always seems to decay once.

[Demo Here]({{site.asset_url}}/files/array_type.cpp)

## stdio

* `cin` stops at whitespace (w/o removing them)
  * `cin` ignores leading whitespace
* `getline` remove newline from stream
  * `cin.ignore()` to remove character from stream
  * `cin.ignore(80, 'b')` remove upto 80 char until b is also consumed
* `string` + `stringstream` + `std::getline` == `split`
  * `getline` can use a single char as delim

```c++
// makes c and c++ io have independent buffer
ios_base::sync_with_stdio(false);
// normally, cin / cout flush before operation on the other stream
// untie it means manually flush
cin.tie(NULL);
```

## static variables initialization order

The order is undefined across different compilation units.

In the same compilation unit, it is the same order as definition.

Side note:
I think it might relate to the compile process.
i.e. the compiler knows that this symbol has dependency on other symbols.
But the only thing it can do is to leave a undefined symbol
When linker generates the binary,
it only knows that there is an undefined symbol without knowing the dependency?

## incompleted type 

> A structure type whose members you have not yet specified.
> A union type whose members you have not yet specified.
> An array type whose dimension you have not yet specified.

* EXP57-CPP: do not delete pointers to incomplete classes
* For the following case, the compiler is forced to generate a deleter
* unique_ptr: zero-abstraction -> deleter always generated.
  * ~P()
  * move assignment
  * reset()
  * reset(A*)
* shared_ptr: deleter is needed to construct the control block
  * P(A*)
  * reset(A*)

[complete type requirement](https://howardhinnant.github.io/incomplete.html)

## unique_ptr

* Notice that when we use `release`, the custom deleter is lost.
  * So, when constructing shared_ptr from unique_ptr, we need to `move`.
* `unique_ptr` points to one element of T, which differs from raw pointer
  * `unique_ptr<int>` point to one and only one int
  * `unique_ptr<int[]>` point to one int array
    * notice that this is a array specialization of unique_ptr
  * `int*` point to one int, which might be the start of a array.

## shared_ptr

```c++
struct Good: std::enable_shared_from_this<Good> // note: public inheritance
{
    std::shared_ptr<Good> getptr() {
        return shared_from_this();
    }
};
```

When `Good` is managed by a `shared_ptr`,
`shared_from_this` generates additional `shared_ptr` from `this` with shared ownership.

* `std::shared_ptr<Good>(this)` is broken due to separate reference count

## virtual function 

* virtual function should be accessed using pointer or reference
* function call cannot be inlined because of vtable
* implementation:
  * each class has a static virtual table
  * each virtual object holds a pointer to some virtual table
  * at construction, replace parent's pointer with child's pointer
  * type information & dynamic cast can be embedded in the virtual table

```c
// simple dump function
// %zu for size_t, %p for void *
static void print_object(const char *name, void *this_, size_t size) {
  void **ugly = reinterpret_cast<void**>(this_);
  size_t i;
  printf("created %s at address %p of size %zu\n", name, this_, size);
  for(i = 0 ; i < size / sizeof(void*) ; i++) {
    printf("  pointer[%zu] == %p\n", i, ugly[i]);
  }
}
```

http://blog.httrack.com/blog/2014/05/09/a-basic-glance-at-the-virtual-table/

## multi-threading

* use scoped_lock over lock_guard because it is a super set
* unique_lock has the state of not owning any mutex.
  * Thus, it can be default constructed. (error-prune)
* condition_variable:
  * needs to unlock so unique_lock is necessary
  * w/o predicate, a cv can be notified before entering wait state (lost)
    * with predicate, we can check and skip the wait
  * w/o predicate, a cv can Spurious wakeup and escape the wait
    * with predicate, we will re-enter wait
  * predicate needs to be guarded with the same mutex
    * otherwise, a sync is not guaranteed.

## iterator

* when empty, then `begin() == end()`
* `input iterator`, `++r` requires r to be dereferencable
* `bidirectional iterator`, `--r` has the *post condition* that r is dereferenable
* `before_begin` is only defined for `forward_list`

## std::algorithm

* `find_if`, `find_if_not`
  * `find_first_of`, `find_last_of` in `std::string` has a `pos` parameter
* `swap`, `reverse`

## memory layout

* POD -> aggregate -> class
* placement new
  * `new (placement params) type (initializer)`
  * construct objects in allocated storage
  * must manually call destructor
  * usually encapsulated by `Allocator`
* alignment
  * alignas(): alignment requirement on struct
  * std::align(): align pointer to specific requirement

## namespace

* anonymous namespace has internal linkage which is the same as `static` in file
* inline namespace expose content to enclosing namespace
  * inject information into the mangled name (ABI) without altering the API
    * used for library versioning
    * ADL does not follow `using`
  * default call accesses inline namespace
  * but a fully qualified call can access any namespace
    * old abi is retained
  * as long as the type does not cross api boundary, a executable can use both namespaces at the same time

## name lookup

For names in templates, there is a two phase name lookup.
`dependent` and `nondependent` with respect to some template parameter.

* due to existence of template specialization, a dependent name can resolve differently based on template parameter
* The compiler will not look into dependent base class when looking up nondependent names.
  * inheritance might not resolve properly
* The compiler might look into the bigger namespace if nondependent name lookup fail
  * it is possible to lookup a different function with the same name
* The compiler might not be sure if a dependent name is a type
  * In this case, `typename` need to be specified
* The compiler might not be sure if a nondependent name becomes a dependent one.
  * In this case, `template` need to be specified

[Reference 1](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2012/02/06/dependent-name-lookup-for-c-templates)
[Reference 2](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/dependent_name)
[Guideline](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/templates#nondependent-name-lookup-members)

## exception

* all exceptions need to be exposed in abi
  * otherwise, rtti cannot resolve
* exceptions need to be inherited virtually such that it resolve to a single base class

## reflection vs rtti

With rtti, program is able to work on a set of runtime types.
The set is determined in compile time.

With reflection, program is expected to work on any runtime types
by looking into the data structure during runtime

## SFINAE

* Short for Substitution failure is not an error.
* One template can fail so that a compliment template can be effective
* based on SFINAE, same name can resolve to different type.
  * by detecting the difference, one can perform template meta programming
* `enable_if<bool, T=void>::type`
  * resolve to T if true
  * otherwise, fail
  * `enable_if_t<bool> * = nullptr`
* different default argument in template is not considered to be a different template

## crtp

Notice that even though we can cast to child class.
If we do not have the function defined in the child class,
the pointer might be implicitly casted back to parent class.

## weird operators

* `bool`, `!`:  The Safe Bool Idiom
  * bool can be implicitly converted, which can be unexpected
  * `explicit operator bool()`
* `&`: std::addressof
* `&&`, `||` not short-circuit
* `,`
* `->*`

* `operator""`: c++11 user defined literal

## inline

## todo section

### std function vs function pointer

note: you can bind to abstract class if you pass by pointer

> std::bind generates a forwarding call wrapper for f.
> The arguments to bind are copied or moved,
> and are never passed by reference unless wrapped in std::ref or std::cref.

If a function has a reference parameter, there is a problem forwarding to this?

### c++ module

https://vector-of-bool.github.io/2019/03/31/modules-2.html

## c++ concepts

c++ guide?
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Using_CXX_in_Mozilla_code

## c++ regex

## library

eigen
blaze
xtensor
xsimd
range
hana

pkg config
xpm: https://xpack.github.io/

## some nice source

[Guru of the Week](https://herbsutter.com/gotw/)
[Bartek's coding blog](https://www.bfilipek.com/)
[see what compiler sees](https://cppinsights.io/)
[compiler explorer](https://gcc.godbolt.org/)
